Stripe extension to send an invoice (#7)
adreyfus-stripe/create-invoice-extension: POSTINSTALL.md

### See it in action

You can test out this extension right away!

> 1. Go to your [Cloud Firestore dashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/${param:PROJECT_ID}/database/firestore/data) in the Firebase console.

Reviewer: testing access permissions

Author: What do you mean by this?

Reviewer 2: lol sorry - Kara was just doing a test.  This comment can be resolved with no action.

> 2. If it doesn't already exist, create the collection you specified during installation: `${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If it doesn't already exist, create the collection you specified during installation: `${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION}`
```

Author: Why are we changing these to 1. when they are later steps?

Reviewer 2: Markdown syntax doesn't require each step/list item to be numbered.  By using all 1. or all 0., then you never need to remember to update your numbering if you add/delete a step - woot!  In more formal doc sets for Firebase, this is our practice.  We've carried it into the extensions user docs.

In the rendered display, these will auto-number (both here in GitHub and in the Console) :-)

Author: Interesting, I actually didn't know that! Updated them all 👍

> 3. Test the invoicing functionality by adding a document to your collection, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Test the invoicing functionality by adding a document to your collection, for example:
```

```json
email: "customer@example.com",
items: [{
    amount: 1999,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "my super cool item"
},
{
    amount: 540,
    currency: "usd",

>     description: "shipping cost"

Reviewer 3: I think it's because the code section is marked as JSON, but the keys aren't in quotes. This can be fix by either putting the keys in quotes, or maybe switching "json" to "js" on line 11

>     description: "shipping cost"

Author: Ah yes, switching to JS for the syntax highlighting unless someone has a compelling reason to keep the json format (is there a way you can easily copy / paste JSON blobs into Firestore without using a client lib? I couldn't figure that out)

}]
```

> 4. Look in your [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/invoices) for a record of the test invoice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Look in your [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/invoices) for a record of the test invoice.
```

* **`items`**: An array of items (each one is a map) that are included in the invoice. Each item must include an `amount` (_number_), `currency` (_string_), and `description` (_string_).

```
items: [{
   amount: 999,
   currency: "usd",
   description: "one shirt, size medium"
}]
```

**Note:** Stripe supports [135+ currencies](https://stripe.com/docs/currencies) and requires the amount to be in the currency’s small unit (for example, for USD, `999` is equivalent to $9.99).

* **`daysUntilDue`**: (__number, optional__) The number of days a customer has to pay the invoice before it's closed. This value defaults to `${param:DAYS_UNTIL_DUE_DEFAULT}`, but you can override the default value by providing a value in the invoice document.

Here are some example documents to represent an invoice:

```json
email: "customer@example.com",
items: [{
    amount: 1999,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "my super cool item"
},
{
    amount: 540,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "shipping cost"
}]
```

or

```json
uid: "customer@example.com",
items: [{
    amount: 1999,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "my super cool item"
}],
daysUntilDue: 2
```

> You can use a Firebase SDK to add an invoice document to [Cloud Firestore.](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#set_up_your_development_environment) Here's an example using the Firebase Node SDK:

Reviewer 2: @jhuleatt This comment thread here ^

> You can use a Firebase SDK to add an invoice document to [Cloud Firestore.](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#set_up_your_development_environment) Here's an example using the Firebase Node SDK:

Reviewer 3: Hm, we usually don't use `firebase` for the admin SDK. To match the [firestore node.js docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/manage-data/add-data#add_a_document) it could be:

```js
  db.collection("${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION}")
    .add({
      email: "customer@example.com",
      items: [
        {
          amount: 1000,  // $10.00
          currency: "usd",
          description: "Cool hat"
        }
      ]
    })
    .then(newInvoiceRef => console.log(`added a new invoice at path ${newInvoiceRef.path}`));
```

this would leave out a few [implied lines](https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin/setup#add-sdk) before it, but that's probably ok since we do the same in the docs?
the lines are:

```js
const admin = require('firebase-admin');
admin.initializeApp( /* some credential, or blank if we're in a Cloud Function */ );
const db = admin.firestore();
```

> You can use a Firebase SDK to add an invoice document to [Cloud Firestore.](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#set_up_your_development_environment) Here's an example using the Firebase Node SDK:

Reviewer 2: We could put in those three lines, yeah?  Just for completeness?

> You can use a Firebase SDK to add an invoice document to [Cloud Firestore.](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#set_up_your_development_environment) Here's an example using the Firebase Node SDK:

Author: I put the full set of lines for completeness, thank you!

```js
  firebase
    .firestore()
    .collection("${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION}")
    .add({
      email: "customer@example.com",
      items: [
        {
          amount: 1000,  // $10.00
          currency: "usd",
          description: "Cool hat"
        }
      ]
    })
    .then(newInvoiceRef => console.log(`added a new invoice at path ${newInvoiceRef.path}`));
```

Always add an invoice document from your server -- this ensures that your customer cannot directly manipulate the amount and change the order total.

#### Update Cloud Firestore security rules

> ##### Creating Invoices

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we have H5-level formatting in the CSS... we might just need to eliminate these two headings.

Author: Should I emphasize them instead?

You should prevent client access to the ${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION} collection to avoid potential abuse (you don't want users to send arbitrary emails from your company's address!). It is recommended to turn off write access (`allow write: if false;`) to your invoices collection so that new invoices can only be added by a trusted server.

In addition, security rules can be used to validate data to help ensure that incorrect invoices are not created.

##### Reading invoices

It is important to add read permissions to security rules to make sure one customer cannot read another's invoicing information. One way to do this is to limit reads on an invoice document to only the auth user it was intended for by checking the `email` or `uid` field against `request.auth.uid` or `request.auth.token.email`.

> Security rules will vary from application to application, but you should always make sure that emails are sent only to intended recipients and free-form content is kept to a minimum.

Author: I'm actually not sure what this line is trying to say. Since the emails are being sent from Stripe with our own template, there is no opportunity for someone to add free-form content.

> Security rules will vary from application to application, but you should always make sure that emails are sent only to intended recipients and free-form content is kept to a minimum.

Reviewer 2: Ah!  you are right!  Feel free to remove it :-)

> Security rules will vary from application to application, but you should always make sure that emails are sent only to intended recipients and free-form content is kept to a minimum.

Reviewer 2: In my suggested fix for this section, I've removed this paragraph.

#### _(Optional)_ Update Cloud Firestore documents with invoice statuses

You can set up a webhook that updates each Cloud Firestore document with the status of its associated invoice (called the [invoice lifecycle](https://stripe.com/docs/billing/subscriptions/overview#invoice-lifecycle)). The webhook creates invoice-status fields in the document, then it updates the fields whenever the invoice's status updates in the Stripe dashboard (for example, with `paid`, `uncollectable`, etc.).  You can then query Cloud Firestore for this status to use in your app, company dashboards, etc.

Here's how to set up the webhook and configure your extension to use it:

1. To enable the Stripe backend to trigger the webhook, make the extension's `updateInvoice` function public by following [these steps](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/securing/managing-access-iam#allowing_unauthenticated_function_invocation) in the Google Cloud console. Here's the official name of the function displayed in the console:

`${function:updateInvoice.name}`

> 2. Configure your webhook:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Configure your webhook:
```

>     a. Go to the [Stripe dashboard.](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/webhooks)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Go to the [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/webhooks).
```

>     b. Use the URL of your extension's function as the endpoint URL. Here's your function's URL: `${function:updateInvoice.url}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Use the URL of your extension's function as the endpoint URL. Here's your function's URL: `${function:updateInvoice.url}`
```

>     c. Select all the invoice events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Select all the invoice events.
```

> 3. Using the Firebase console or Firebase CLI, [reconfigure your extension with your webhook’s signing secret (such as, `whsec_12345678`). Enter the value in the parameter called `Stripe webhook secret`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using the Firebase console or Firebase CLI, [reconfigure](https://firebase.google.com/docs/extensions/manage-installed-extensions#reconfigure) your extension with your webhook’s signing secret (such as, `whsec_12345678`). Enter the value in the parameter called `Stripe webhook secret`.
```

The webhook fires whenever the invoice's status updates in the Stripe dashboard. The first time the webhook fires, it finds the relevant document in Cloud Firestore, then creates two fields: `stripeInvoiceStatus` and `lastStripeEvent`. If the webhook fires subsequent times for the same invoice, it will update those same fields.

* `lastStripeEvent` is the webhook event type (for example `invoice.payment_succeeded`).

* `stripeInvoiceStatus` is the relevant end status (for example, `paid`).

> Read more about Stripe’s invoicing workflow and the possible values for these two fields in the [Stripe documentation.](https://stripe.com/docs/billing/invoices/workflow#invoice-status-transition-endpoints-and-webhooks) Note that for this extension, if the event type is `invoice.payment_failed`, its end status will be set to `payment_failed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read more about Stripe’s invoicing workflow and the possible values for these two fields in the [Stripe documentation](https://stripe.com/docs/billing/invoices/workflow#invoice-status-transition-endpoints-and-webhooks). Note that for this extension, if the event type is `invoice.payment_failed`, its end status will be set to `payment_failed`.
```

### Monitoring

As a best practice, you can [monitor the activity](https://firebase.google.com/docs/extensions/manage-installed-extensions#monitor) of your installed extension, including checks on its health, usage, and logs.

Access the [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/) to manage all aspects of your Stripe account.

> Enjoy and please send any feedback to stripe-extension-feedback@googlegroups.com!

Reviewer 2: I'm still not sure about including this sentence in the POSTINSTALL file.
@Kara

Reviewer: I think it's fine to include, especially if people have questions that they feel shy about emailing the rest of the broader mailing list about. We should remember to take out before launching publicly!

Reviewer 2: cool.  for closure... filed b/155515740 (internal Google bug ticketing system) to remind us to do this :-)

items: [{
    amount: 1999,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "my super cool item"
},
{
    amount: 540,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "shipping cost"
}]
```

or

```js
uid: "customer@example.com",
items: [{
    amount: 1999,
    currency: "usd",
    description: "my super cool item"
}],
daysUntilDue: 2
```

You can use a Firebase SDK to add an invoice document to [Cloud Firestore.](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#set_up_your_development_environment) Here's an example using the Firebase Node.js SDK:

```js
const admin = require('firebase-admin');
admin.initializeApp( /* some credential, or blank if we're in a Cloud Function */ );
const db = admin.firestore();

db.collection("${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION}")
  .add({
    email: "customer@example.com",
    items: [
      {
        amount: 1000,  // $10.00
        currency: "usd",
        description: "Cool hat"
      }
    ]
  })
  .then(newInvoiceRef => console.log(`added a new invoice at path ${newInvoiceRef.path}`));
```

Always add an invoice document from your server -- this ensures that your customer cannot directly manipulate the invoice values, especially for an item's `amount`.

> #### Update Cloud Firestore security rules
> 
> ##### Creating Invoices
> 
> You should prevent client access to the ${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION} collection to avoid potential abuse (you don't want users to send arbitrary emails from your company's address!). You can use security rules to restrict write access (`allow write: if false;`) to your invoices collection so that new invoices can only be added by a trusted server.
> 
> In addition, you can use security rules to validate the data of each new invoice.
> 
> ##### Reading invoices
> 
> It's important to ensure that one customer can't read another customer's invoicing information. You can use security rules to restrict read access for an invoice document to its associated customer by checking the `email` or `uid` field against `request.auth.uid` or `request.auth.token.email`.
> 
> Security rules will vary from application to application, but you should always make sure that emails are sent only to intended recipients and free-form content is kept to a minimum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Update Cloud Firestore security rules

**Creating invoices**

You should prevent client access to the ${param:INVOICES_COLLECTION} collection to avoid potential abuse (you don't want users to send arbitrary emails from your company's address!). You can use security rules to restrict write access (`allow write: if false;`) to your invoices collection so that new invoices can only be added by a trusted server.

In addition, you can use security rules to validate the data of each new invoice.

**Reading invoices**

You should also prevent customers from reading other customers' invoicing information. You can use security rules to restrict read access for an invoice document to its associated customer by checking the `email` or `uid` field against `request.auth.uid` or `request.auth.token.email`.
```

Reviewer 2: We can check this formatting in staging next week :-)
